RECOGNIZE AND REPORT PHISHING
Phishing attacks have become an increasingly common problem for organizations of all sizes and
can be very difficult to spot. It’s important every individual stop and think before clicking on a link or
opening an attachment and know how to spot red flags. Cybersecurity Awareness Month 2023
guidance provides the tools needed to recognize and report phishing it to their organization or email
provider.
ADDITIONAL FACTS AND FIGURES
OUR TIPS AND ADVICE
Phishing occurs when criminals try to get you to open harmful links or attachments that could steal
personal information or infect devices. Phishing messages or “bait” usually come in the form of an
email, text, direct message on social media or phone call. These messages are often designed to look
like they come from a trusted person or organization, to get you to respond. The good news is you can
avoid the phish hook and keep accounts secure!
Urgent or alarming language
Requests to send personal and financial information
Poor writing, misspellings, or unusual language
Incorrect email addresses, domain names, or links (e.g. amazan.com)
Know your organization’s guidance for reporting phishing. If your organization offers it, you may find
options to report via the “report spam” button in your email toolbar or settings.
For personal email accounts, you may be able to report spam or phishing to your email provider by
right-clicking on the message.
FOLLOW THESE TOP TIPS:
1. Recognize - Look for these common signs:
2. Report - If you suspect phishing, report the phish to protect yourself and others.
3. Delete - Delete the message. Don’t reply or click on any attachment or link, including any
“unsubscribe” link. Just delete
72% of respondents reported that they checked to see whether messages were legitimate (i.e.
phishing or a scam) compared to 15% who reported not doing so. (NCA)
47% of the participants said they used the reporting capability on a platform (e.g. Gmail, Outlook)
“very often” or “always”. (NCA) 

