USE STRONG PASSWORDS AND
A PASSWORD MANAGER
As our online lives expand, the average user has gone from having just a few passwords to now
managing upwards of 100. That’s 100 unique passwords to remember, if you’re using strong
password habits. Password managers can save users the trouble of having to remember multiple
passwords and make accounts safer by recommending strong, unique passwords and storing them
all in one place.
OUR TIPS AND ADVICE
Using an easy-to-guess password is like locking the door but leaving the key in the lock. Weak
passwords can quickly be cracked by computer hackers. The good news is that strong passwords are
one of the easiest ways to protect your accounts from compromise and reduce the risk of someone
stealing sensitive information, data, money, or even your identity.
STRENGTHEN YOUR PASSWORDS WITH THESE TIPS
1. Longer is stronger: Passwords with at least 16 characters are hardest to crack.
2. Hard to guess: Use a random string of mixed-case letters, numbers and symbols. If you need to
memorize a password, create a memorable “passphrase” of 5 – 7 unrelated words. Get creative with
spelling and/or add numbers or symbols
3. One of a kind: Use a unique password for each account.
Remembering long, unique passwords for every account in our lives is impossible. Rather than write
them down or reuse weak passwords, use a password manager.
Password managers generate complex and unique passwords for you, store them all in one place
and tell you when you have weak, re-used passwords, or compromised passwords. They can also
automatically fill credentials into sites and apps using a secure browser plugin. You only need to
remember one master password—the one for accessing the password manager itself. (Tip: Create a
memorable long “passphrase” as described above and NEVER write your master password 
Additional Facts and Figures
Only 33% of individuals create unique passwords for all accounts (NCA)
Only 18% of individuals have downloaded a password manager (NCA)
